## Project Name: Market Event Predictor

# McHacks 2025 - Predictive Tool for Market Events

## How to run the project
Go to frontend folder / Market Event Predictor and run `npm install`  
Then run `npm run dev` and then go to the url provided in the terminal


## Challenge Overview
Develop a tool (ML or statistics-based approach) to predict market events (significant changes in a stock) before they happen.

## Predictive Tool Modelling
Given the historical market data (best price and trade datasets) of 5 stocks containing volatility events (economic/news releases):

### Step 1: Interactive Graph/Visualization
- Design an interactive graph/visualization that can display the selected stock's data for a day or time range.
    - Using the graph, identify the timing of those events and observe how they impact the stock prices, and which stock usually leads the market movement.
    - Following these observations, predict the movement of a specific stock using the data from the other stocks. Additionally, anticipate a sharp rise or drop in this stock's value.

#### Bonus:
1. Provide an option to plot the 30 sec and 60 sec standard deviation measures on the graph.
2. Provide as many options as possible to make the graph/chart as useful as possible, for example:
     - Provide options to select the values to display (bid, ask, mid-price, volumes)
     - Highlight the low, high of the day, trades on the chart

### Step 2: Tool Development
- Develop a tool to test and validate your analysis from step 1 (ML or statistics-based approach). Ideally, the tool should be able to generate signals predicting significant changes in the stock.
    - The data provided can be divided into training/validation/test sets at your preference.

#### Bonus:
1. Design a trading strategy using the signals generated by your tool and show the PNL of such a strategy (assume a starting fund of 1,000,000). Explaining the idea behind the strategy is key to securing more points. Examples of strategies could be:
     - Buy (or sell) a stock whenever a signal predicts a sharp rise and sell it once the price is higher.
     - Find a statistical relationship/ratio among the stocks and use the signal as a trigger to buy/sell one and sell/buy the other.

## Final Presentation
A test dataset will be provided to you 5 hours before the deadline to validate your solution. The presentation should be based on that dataset.
